a few weeks ago I switched out my
Samsung Galaxy s24 Ultra for Samsung's
newest folding firms the Z fold 6 and
the Z flip 6 and cards on the table I
got some bones to pick so starting with
the fold on one hand this is nice a
neatened up lighter thinner faster
version of the last phone but every time
I take it out my pocket I also can't
help but feel like Samsung hasn't fixed
the fundamental issues here and I'm not
sure Samsung is even trying to fix the
fundamental issues so if you're coming
from a non-folding phone the first thing
that you're going to instantly notice is
the crease and it's getting to the point
where now I am perplexed I am perplexed
how even six Generations in Samsung
still hasn't managed to just fix this
line going down the middle of their
screen that companies like OnePlus have
already proved can be done better with
their gen one folding phones they just
need to improve the hinge it's the way
this phone is pinching on the screen
every time you close it and it's only
going to get more noticeable the more
you use it the main rear cameras are
good is what I would say if this was an
$800 phone coming from the s24 ultra you
really can feel the compromise whether
that's the more limited Zoom range the
slightly less reliable focusing system
thanks to the lack of laser autofocus or
just the extra bit of graininess that
creeps into dark photos and videos
because of the smaller sensor here now
most people who go out and buy and use
this phone probably won't know what
they're missing out on but that's my job
having used both of these phones to tell
you that what you're getting here stings
a little bit especially considering that
you can now get a brand new Galaxy s24
Ultra for like $1,000 while the zold 6
will run you $1,900 it's two times the
price and it shouldn't be see it made
complete sense to me that the first
Galaxy fold was significantly more
expensive than a normal phm I mean a lot
of R&D would have been required to build
all the new parts and Concepts from
scratch for something that Samsung
didn't expect to sell many units of so
they had to recoup the cost somehow but
that's not the case anymore in the
current market this hinge and this
folding screen these are standard Parts
this phone almost definitely does not
cost more than $200 extra to produce
than this but it's like $8 to $900 more
expensive to you for no other reason
then that's become the default
expectation for a fault and they know
they can get away with it paying $1900
for a phone you would expect this to be
the place where Samsung throws every
single thing they got at the wall but
instead you get basically the same
camera setup as not even the s24 ultra
but the tiny base Galaxy s24 and your
selfie cameras are even worse the front
one's not too bad it takes 10 megap
shots that make you look nice it's
standard Samsung fair but the inside 4
megapix camera makes you look sick and I
I don't mean that as a compliment I mean
that literally shooting photos on this
reminds me of shooting photos on the
PlayStation Portable camera like 15
years ago and I have heard a few people
saying well this camera is designed for
video calling which is low quality
anyway so you're not going to notice the
resolution but disagree the resolution
is so low that you can't record 4K video
with it which I have found myself
wanting to do a pretty decent amount the
camera seems to have a persistent
faintness to it presumably because of
the extra layer of pixels on top of it
but also since the whole appeal of a
phone is to use it while it's open and
use flex mode to prop the thing up to
record videos I don't think you can
argue that this camera is only for video
calls at least 20% of the time this is
the camera that you're going to want to
use to shoot stuff so the quality really
matters and it just makes you wonder how
did this happen Samsung introduced this
4 megapixel under display camera on the
zold 3 it was terribly received then and
they've had the four the five and now
the six to fix this and so how have we
ended up in a situation where this is
the camera experience from a $2,000 2024
Flagship grade Enthusiast smartphone
anyways the front screen is wider than
it was before which is a nice
Improvement it looks neater they've got
rid of all of the weird Corner screen
bezels but it does still feel just a
little bit like like no man's land it's
very close to feeling like you're using
a normal phone and that's impressive
considering what this is but it's still
just a little worse in every way a
little bit too tall a little bit too
narrow and a decent amount chunkier than
a Barone and this whole structure
creates a bit of a thermal compromise
too it's not hugely surprising I mean
when unfolded you're having to light up
a larger screen area which creates more
heat and then when folded this is a
thicker slab which makes it harder for
that heat to escape and this isn't some
Niche perk that only affects your gaming
frame rates after prolonged periods of
play so many times when I have this
phone open and it's like slightly warm
outside I'm noticing I can barely see my
screen because it's dimming itself to
try and prevent overheating and two
times it's actually gone one step
further and refused to open my apps CU
of temperature just to clarify I don't
live on some subtropical Paradise Island
basked in Sun all day I live in the UK
there is no reason I should be getting
temperature warnings this severe with
normal usage oh yeah also one of the
things I love about the Galaxy s24 Ultra
is the battery life that's one phone
that I've never had to worry about but
this with both a smaller battery
capacity and a larger screen to power it
runs out anywhere between 15 and 25%
faster and that puts it very much in the
anxiety Zone I mean I do nowadays pretty
much always carry around a power bank so
I'm not left stranded but that's just
made me realize how much more often I
reaching for power here the flip does
kind of fix this issue but I'm getting
to that phone there was also quite a bit
of emphasis that Samsung placed on the
new AI features here of course they did
it's 2024 but uh are they good some of
them are I'd say the vast majority do
still fall into the fun to play with but
I won't use often category I suppose the
most useful kinds of AI features are the
ones that allow you to do things that
you already do but better or faster as
opposed to the ones that just
continuously add more different options
because you know we're only human
there's only so many features that
you're going to be able to integrate
into your life but this is why I love
the idea of all of this automatic
translation stuff like being able to
have a WhatsApp chat across a usually
impenetrable language barrier but not
not actually having to think about the
language barrier anymore and also the
new smart select tool it's exactly what
I was saying it's making the kinds of
things that you'd already be doing
anyways trying to fiddle around and
select stuff faster I was also super
excited about this new sketch to image
and there are moments where it all works
the way you expected where you manage to
perfectly place a one-of-a-kind dinosaur
within the scene of your day out in the
park and you feel like the protagonist
in a superh hero movie at the single
moment where unlimited power has just
been dropped in your lap but I would say
there's too many constraints right now
it seems like there's some sort of
safety restriction when it comes to
adding things to faces which I mean it
makes sense considering all the Havoc
that's been wrought by Deep fakes lately
but then at the same time faces are the
main useful thing that you might want to
add things to and there's also other
issues I'm bumping into like draw
smaller objects or Draw objects closer
together to generate I think Samsung's
just not ready for my big Ideas yet and
you know what using this feature
consistently reminds me of just how
silly it is that the one phone
specifically designed to look and feel
like a not ad does not come with a
built-in S Pen like the s24 ultra does
you know the smaller of the two phones
so the only real remaining question is
then do the folding features make it all
worth it I feel like I've made it pretty
clear at this point that you're giving
up a lot to get these features you're
paying twice as much money you're having
to deal with a crease a terrible unders
screen camera two displays with
unorthodox aspect ratios a compromised
battery and no S Pen so should you well
as far as the physical act of being able
to prop your phone up on flat surfaces
it feels cool I've used it a fair bit to
record time lapses of things happening
or watch movies on a Plane by sitting
the phone up on my trade table but it
doesn't really matter I would say you'll
actually have a distinctly better
experience just using a normal phone
with a kickstand case since you'll get a
bigger more natural screen ratio and
also often times with these cases
magnets for better wireless charging I
mean there are things that do uniquely
utilize the display on this phone the
taskbar for starters is an amazing
addition this whole one tap to instantly
being in another R is a genuinely UNG
gimicky efficiency Improvement that you
just can't have on a smaller phone but
ultimately it's not for me you might
know that I spent a few months trying to
use an iPad as my main computer and the
whole reason that failed was simply
because of the mobile operating system
same thing here while it is impressive
how much this thing can do for a phone
the truth is that for most people this
phone is still a little bit too fiddly
and not quite efficient enough to be a
good main computer which makes it hard
to justify given that for this price you
can actually buy a good equivalently
performing flagship phone and still have
the money left over for a great laptop
so I fold and if you're looking at
buying this please make absolute sure
that these specific folding features are
things that you'll definitely use
because if you splurge on a fold and all
you end up doing is playing Candy Crush
but either squeezed or stretched that
will be a poor purchase decision I just
feel like these Z folds are a little bit
stuck not that many people are buying
them so Samsung seems to have lost the
drive to actually fix the fundamental
compromises which in turn makes them
persistently hard to recommend outside
of their Niche the flip six though is
actually very different and in my
opinion a phone that makes more sense if
the fold is the insecure teenager trying
desperately to be something they're not
the flip is its eccentric sibling who
sure they're a little bit odd but they
understand who they're trying to be
through many years of bulking up the
specs on these phones ITA Samsung's now
got to a stage where the Galaxy Z flip 6
is basically a flagship Galaxy s24 plus
that costs $1 to $200 more more but
folds in half and that isn't pointless
it's partly just a bit of fun which
doesn't hurt in an era where everyone's
always saying that smartphones have
peaked I can't lie if Samsung ever gave
you the option to have their top end
Ultra phones also fold without any
compromises I take it in a heartbeat and
they've really dialed into that fun with
all the unique front screen
customization and funky case options and
this new uh photo ambient feature which
overlays real weather effects onto
photos that you've taken it's very
pointless but brings me joy it's got a
potential lifestyle benefit because
unlike the front of the zold 6 which is
basically just a slightly less
comfortable phone the front of the flip
6 it has a very clearly distinct feature
set to the main screen this is much more
like having a smartphone and then a
completely separate smart watch as
opposed to this which is like a
smartphone and then a slightly worse
smartphone and when I switched over to
the zflip 5 last year I did find that
the physical barrier to go from this
Smartwatch stage to the smartphone stage
actually did make me use my phone L and
then you do lose the three times
telephoto camera that the s24 plus has
so you only get a main and an ultra wide
but I would actually say that it makes
up for it with selfies see unlike the
fold which can use its high-end rear
cameras to take selfies here that's
actually the default way to take selfies
if you want to take good selfies on the
fold you have to unfold open the camera
flip that camera tap the cover screen
preview button physically turn the phone
over being careful not to swipe anything
on screen and then take your shot before
closing it all back up again here you
just double tap the power button and
then tap the screen it's not a perfect
system because then at the same time
anytime you want to take a photo of
what's in front of you you do have to
manually flip the phone open but the
point is this phone is a unique
proposition that makes it distinct and
useful for more than 1% of the
population now there are a few things
that I would say are compromised like
you still have to deal with the crease
but for whatever reason it is
significantly less noticeable on this
flip than it is the fold the buttons are
a little high up when the phone's open
and I do feel like they could quite
easily shove them down and they'd still
work fine in both unfolded and folded
States the screen is a little bit tall
not as tall as the cover screen on the
fold but still taller than I'd like and
it's only got a 1080p resolution as
opposed to the Quad HD that you get on
their flat flagships but I think that's
okay I keep my phone on 1080p anyways
for battery life and temperature reasons
and it's got the same chip as the s24
ultra same Ram same base storage same
wireless charging speeds and yeah the
battery capacity is smaller too just
like the fold also has a smaller battery
than normal bar phones but unlike the
fold which is like a normal phone that
extends into a big tablet this is a
normal phone that folds into something
half that size which means you save a
lot of battery compared to a normal
phone and you end up with something very
close to that of an s24 plus so my
through line for this phone is very much
that six Generations in you still have
to make compromises for a phone that
folds if all you want is the best bang
for your buck it isn't this and to be
honest it never will be this however if
you just really like the idea of a
folding phone then you're giving up
surprisingly little to get it here and
you also scoop up a couple of little
perks while you're at it too so I had a
funny situation a couple of weeks ago I
was stuck in a plane while England was
in the Euros football final which by the
way the men's team has never won so this
was a big deal and it felt like every
single person on that flight wanted to
do one thing and one thing only find a
way to stream the game but they couldn't
the football was being streamed for free
in the UK on BBC player but you know
when you're flying 40,000 ft above the
Atlantic Ocean your phone is going to
know that and the app will refuse to
play due to Geographic license
restrictions I could literally see the
lady in front of me searching live for
the best VPN deals on this flight so you
can imagine how desperately desperately
I wanted to grab her and tell her that I
had it is this Sur Shar VPN we pulled it
up we switched our location to the UK
and we managed to watch England fudge
the finals once more live after which we
kind of wish we hadn't bothered but the
point is I'm consistently glad that I
have this subscription and given that
with the code boss you can now get it
for just $29 a month with a 30-day money
back guarantee for an unlimited number
of users with four extra months for free
it's a bit of a no-brainer